README.md, before:

Simple to use jekyll-markdown parsing note-taking app for the command line and your favorite editor and unix tools.

**Package is still in development and testing. There may be breaking changes.**


Features
===============================================================================

- Create, edit, manage and search text-based notes using markdown
- Read from single flexible storage directory, search, filter and list notes
- List tags
- Use your standard vavorite $EDITOR to edit notes

- compatible with "notes" created with [notable](https://notable.md) or [notes-cli](https://github.com/rhysd/notes-cli)

Other ideas & planned features can be found in the [wiki](./wiki). If something doesn’t work please [create a new issue](https://github.com/Ephigenia/notable-cli/issues).


Installation
===============================================================================

    npm install -g notable-cli

Or use it directly using `npx`:

    npx notable-cli

Please note that all examples in this README.md assume that you have installed notable-cli globally. If not, just replace the `notable-cli` call with `npx notable-cli` and you’re fine.


Configuration
===============================================================================

The cli searches for not-hidden markdown files ending with `.md` in the notebooks home directory which must be set in environment variable: `NOTABLE_CLI_HOME`.

You can set this by exporting it or setting it in your `.bash_profile`:

    export NOTABLE_CLI_HOME=~/Notes

If `NOTABLE_CLI_HOME` isn’t defined, it checks for `NOTES_CLI_HOME` or `NOTES_CLI_HOME`.


Usage
===============================================================================

List Notes
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Listing all notes in column output with creation data, title and tags:

    notable-cli list --oneline

## Search Notes

You can search in *tags*, *title* and *content* of all notes with a regular expression syntax when using the first argument "query". Just imagine you’re searching your notes which contain "Meeting":

    notable-cli list Meeting

You can also be more specific when you know that you’re searching for a specific tag:

    notable-cli list --tag Meeting

Searching by a specific date just needs to enter the date in `YYYYMMDD` format:

    notable-cli list 20191011

## Sorting Notes

The list can be sorted using the `--sort` parameter. So you can open your last created note:

    notable-cli list --sort created | tail -n 1 | xargs $EDITOR

## Open Notes

Notes can be opened piping the output of `notable-cli list` to your favorite editor or by using the `--editor` option which opens the editor.

    notable-cli list | xargs $EDITOR

Same thing can be archived by:

    notable-cli list --editor

Text-Based User Interface ([TUI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Text-based_user_interface))
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The interactive text-mode interface a [neo-blessed](https://github.com/embark-framework/neo-blessed) powered interactive cli inerface that allows you to list all the notes, tags and creation/modified date while entering a search query on top and preview the notes as soon as there’s one selected in the list:

    notable-cli --interactive

It can also get combined with other arguments like searching or filtering by tags:
    
    notable-cli --tags Project/IKEA --interactive

### Panes

There are 3 panes, search input, list of notes and a note-preview which shows the currently selected note:

    ┌─Search──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
    │ Notable                                                                                         │
    └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
    ┌──Notes (1)────────┬──────────────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────────┐
    │ Title             │ Tags                             │ Created ⬆ / Age                          │
    │ Notable-Cli Ideas │ Ideas, Note, Project/Notable-CLI │ 2019-11-04 07:56  / 6                    │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    └───────────────────┴──────────────────────────────────┴──────────────────────────────────────────┘
    ┌──/Users/ephigenia/Google Drive File Stream/Meine Ablage/Notable/notes/Notable-Cli Ideas.md──────┐
    │                                                                                                 │
    │ # Notable-Cli Ideas                                                                             │
    │                                                                                                 │
    │ ### Roadmap                                                                                     │
    │                                                                                                 │
    │ ## Questions / Problems                                                                         │
    │                                                                                                 │
    │     * when and how to update modified date                                                      │
    │                                                                                                 │
    │ ## Later Versions                                                                               │
    │                                                                                                 │
    │     * tag batch editing / removing / adding / renaming                                          │
    │                                                                                                 │
    └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

### Key-Bindings

- `<tab>` or `<shift>-<tab>` - focus on next or previous pane
- `r` - reload data from directory
- `f` - focus on text input search for fast searching notes
- `o` - open the currently selected note in the editor
- `q`, `<esc>`, `<ctrl>-c` - quit the application
- `s` or `S` - switch to next or previous sorting direction

## Full output

When using `--full` is used all query matching notes will be shown with their full content.

    notable-cli list --full

Use `less` for paging through the output:

    notable-cli list Standup --full | less


Tags
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
List all tags

    notable-cli tags


New Notes
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Creating new notes accepts the title of the note as first argument and tags as CSV list as the second argument. It will create a file using the title which renderes a template that contain a list of template variables.

    notable-cli new YYYYMMDD-Standup Project/MyProject,Standup,Note

This will create and emmidiently open new note with the current date + "-Standup" as title using the Tags "Project/MyProject", "Standup" and "Note".

## New Notes in Sub-Directories

When the title of the note contains slashes it will be saved in a sub-directory of the home directory.

    notable-cli new Project/Open-Source/YYYYMMDD-Note 

Will create a new file in the "Project/Open-Source/" directory. If that directory doesn’t exist it will get created. Also each directory is added as tag of the newly created file so you don’t have to add them as tags.

## Templates

You can pipe in a file’s content or the template string directly to `notable-cli new` to get it used as template. The content will be handled as [handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/) template.

Using a template:

    cat templates/daily.template.md | notable-cli new YYYYMMDD-Note

Using a template string

    echo "my new note created by {{username}}" | notable-cli new YYYYMMDD-Note

## Template variables

| name           | value                                         |
|----------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| `{{created}}`  | ISO string when the file was created          |
| `{{modified}}` | ISO string when the file was modified         |
| `{{tags}}`     | csv list of tags                              |
| `{{title}}`    | title of the file                             |
| `{{username}}` | current username                              |

There’s also a "format" helper which can be used to add formatted english dates. F.e. if you use `{{ format created 'YYYY-MM-DD' }}` then it will add this date string at the position in the template.


Other Projects
===============================================================================
List of other, alternate or compatible, inspiring projects that use similar markdown syntax or features.

- [joplin-cli](https://joplinapp.org/terminal/)
- [notable](https://notable.md)
- [notes-cli](https://github.com/rhysd/notes-cli)
- [orgmode](https://orgmode.org)
- [tnote](https://github.com/tasdikrahman/tnote)

Commit message:

feat: search query works like AND condition

README.md, after:

Simple to use jekyll-markdown parsing note-taking app for the command line and your favorite editor and unix tools.

**Package is still in development and testing. There may be breaking changes.**


Features
===============================================================================

- Create, edit, manage and search text-based notes using markdown
- Read from single flexible storage directory, search, filter and list notes
- List tags
- Use your standard vavorite $EDITOR to edit notes

- compatible with "notes" created with [notable](https://notable.md) or [notes-cli](https://github.com/rhysd/notes-cli)

Other ideas & planned features can be found in the [wiki](./wiki). If something doesn’t work please [create a new issue](https://github.com/Ephigenia/notable-cli/issues).


Installation
===============================================================================

    npm install -g notable-cli

Or use it directly using `npx`:

    npx notable-cli

Please note that all examples in this README.md assume that you have installed notable-cli globally. If not, just replace the `notable-cli` call with `npx notable-cli` and you’re fine.


Configuration
===============================================================================

The cli searches for not-hidden markdown files ending with `.md` in the notebooks home directory which must be set in environment variable: `NOTABLE_CLI_HOME`.

You can set this by exporting it or setting it in your `.bash_profile`:

    export NOTABLE_CLI_HOME=~/Notes

If `NOTABLE_CLI_HOME` isn’t defined, it checks for `NOTES_CLI_HOME` or `NOTES_CLI_HOME`.


Usage
===============================================================================

List Notes
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Listing all notes in column output with creation data, title and tags:

    notable-cli list --oneline

## Search Notes

You can search in *tags*, *title* and *content* of all notes with a regular expression syntax when using the first argument "query". Just imagine you’re searching your notes which contain "Meeting":

    notable-cli list Meeting

You can also be more specific when you know that you’re searching for a specific tag:

    notable-cli list --tag Meeting

Searching by a specific date just needs to enter the date in `YYYYMMDD` format:

    notable-cli list 20191011

If you enter multiple words all parts of the query must match. The following query will only return notes if all words are somewhere inside the note’s content, title or filename:

    notable-cli list "project customername standup"

## Sorting Notes

The list can be sorted using the `--sort` parameter. So you can open your last created note:

    notable-cli list --sort created | tail -n 1 | xargs $EDITOR

## Open Notes

Notes can be opened piping the output of `notable-cli list` to your favorite editor or by using the `--editor` option which opens the editor.

    notable-cli list | xargs $EDITOR

Same thing can be archived by:

    notable-cli list --editor

Text-Based User Interface ([TUI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Text-based_user_interface))
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The interactive text-mode interface a [neo-blessed](https://github.com/embark-framework/neo-blessed) powered interactive cli inerface that allows you to list all the notes, tags and creation/modified date while entering a search query on top and preview the notes as soon as there’s one selected in the list:

    notable-cli --interactive

It can also get combined with other arguments like searching or filtering by tags:
    
    notable-cli --tags Project/IKEA --interactive

### Panes

There are 3 panes, search input, list of notes and a note-preview which shows the currently selected note:

    ┌─Search──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
    │ Notable                                                                                         │
    └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
    ┌──Notes (1)────────┬──────────────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────────┐
    │ Title             │ Tags                             │ Created ⬆ / Age                          │
    │ Notable-Cli Ideas │ Ideas, Note, Project/Notable-CLI │ 2019-11-04 07:56  / 6                    │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    │                   │                                  │                                          │
    └───────────────────┴──────────────────────────────────┴──────────────────────────────────────────┘
    ┌──/Users/ephigenia/Google Drive File Stream/Meine Ablage/Notable/notes/Notable-Cli Ideas.md──────┐
    │                                                                                                 │
    │ # Notable-Cli Ideas                                                                             │
    │                                                                                                 │
    │ ### Roadmap                                                                                     │
    │                                                                                                 │
    │ ## Questions / Problems                                                                         │
    │                                                                                                 │
    │     * when and how to update modified date                                                      │
    │                                                                                                 │
    │ ## Later Versions                                                                               │
    │                                                                                                 │
    │     * tag batch editing / removing / adding / renaming                                          │
    │                                                                                                 │
    └─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

### Key-Bindings

- `<tab>` or `<shift>-<tab>` - focus on next or previous pane
- `r` - reload data from directory
- `f` - focus on text input search for fast searching notes
- `o` - open the currently selected note in the editor
- `q`, `<esc>`, `<ctrl>-c` - quit the application
- `s` or `S` - switch to next or previous sorting direction

## Full output

When using `--full` is used all query matching notes will be shown with their full content.

    notable-cli list --full

Use `less` for paging through the output:

    notable-cli list Standup --full | less


Tags
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
List all tags

    notable-cli tags


New Notes
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Creating new notes accepts the title of the note as first argument and tags as CSV list as the second argument. It will create a file using the title which renderes a template that contain a list of template variables.

    notable-cli new YYYYMMDD-Standup Project/MyProject,Standup,Note

This will create and emmidiently open new note with the current date + "-Standup" as title using the Tags "Project/MyProject", "Standup" and "Note".

## New Notes in Sub-Directories

When the title of the note contains slashes it will be saved in a sub-directory of the home directory.

    notable-cli new Project/Open-Source/YYYYMMDD-Note 

Will create a new file in the "Project/Open-Source/" directory. If that directory doesn’t exist it will get created. Also each directory is added as tag of the newly created file so you don’t have to add them as tags.

## Templates

You can pipe in a file’s content or the template string directly to `notable-cli new` to get it used as template. The content will be handled as [handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/) template.

Using a template:

    cat templates/daily.template.md | notable-cli new YYYYMMDD-Note

Using a template string

    echo "my new note created by {{username}}" | notable-cli new YYYYMMDD-Note

## Template variables

| name           | value                                         |
|----------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| `{{created}}`  | ISO string when the file was created          |
| `{{modified}}` | ISO string when the file was modified         |
| `{{tags}}`     | csv list of tags                              |
| `{{title}}`    | title of the file                             |
| `{{username}}` | current username                              |

There’s also a "format" helper which can be used to add formatted english dates. F.e. if you use `{{ format created 'YYYY-MM-DD' }}` then it will add this date string at the position in the template.


Other Projects
===============================================================================
List of other, alternate or compatible, inspiring projects that use similar markdown syntax or features.

- [joplin-cli](https://joplinapp.org/terminal/)
- [notable](https://notable.md)
- [notes-cli](https://github.com/rhysd/notes-cli)
- [orgmode](https://orgmode.org)
- [tnote](https://github.com/tasdikrahman/tnote)
